README.md, before:

# 🏥 HospitalDataAnalysis

A mini-project for the **Advanced Python** course.
It focuses on manipulating and visualizing hospital patient data using **Python, Pandas, NumPy, and Matplotlib**, inside a custom environment connected to GitHub.

---

## 🎯 Project Goal

The goal is to simulate a complete **data science workflow**, step by step:

1. Create and configure a Python environment
2. Prepare and load a CSV dataset
3. Explore and visualize the data
4. Manage everything with Git and push it to GitHub

By the end, we will have a reproducible project — from raw data to GitHub repository.

---

##  Step 1 – Create the Project Folder

in**Anaconda Prompt**,we navigate to the location where we want to store the project:

```bash

mkdir HospitalDataAnalysis
cd HospitalDataAnalysis
```

Inside the folder, we create this structure:

```
HospitalDataAnalysis/
│
├── data/
├── notebooks/
├── scripts/
├── screenshots/
│
└── README.md
```
i added screenshots 
---

##  Step 2 – Create and Activate the Environment

In Anaconda Prompt:

```bash
conda create -n HosipitalDataAnalysis python=put here ur python version
conda activate HospitalDataAnalysis
```

Install required libraries:

```bash
conda install pandas numpy matplotlib jupyter
```

---

##  Step 3 – Create the Dataset

Inside the `data` folder,we will create a file named **patients.csv** and add the following:

```csv
PatientID,Age,Sex,BloodPressure,Cholesterol,Diagnosis
insert some data
```

Save and close the file.

---

##  Step 4 – Launch Jupyter Notebook

Running Jupyter:

```bash
jupyter notebook
```
<img src="screenshots/jupyter_interface.png" width="700">

In the browser, we goto  **notebooks/** folder and create a new notebook named **patients_analysis.ipynb**.

---

##  Step 5 – Load and Explore the Data

In the first cell:

```python
import pandas as pd

df = pd.read_csv("../data/patients.csv")
df.head()
```
<img src="screenshots/datasets.png" width="700">
Then explore:

```python
df.info()
df.describe()
df['Diagnosis'].value_counts()
```

### Example Output:



---

##  Step 6 – Visualize the Data

Create visualizations with Matplotlib.


### 6.1 Cholesterol vs Age

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

plt.scatter(df["Age"], df["Cholesterol"], color="blue")
plt.title("Cholesterol vs Age")
plt.xlabel("Age")
plt.ylabel("Cholesterol")
plt.show()
```



---

### 6.2 Diagnosis Distribution

```python
df['Diagnosis'].value_counts().plot(kind='bar', color=['green','orange','red'])
plt.title("Number of Patients per Diagnosis")
plt.xlabel("Diagnosis")
plt.ylabel("Count")
plt.show()
```

<img src="screenshots/visualization.png" width="700">

---



##  Step 7 – Initialize Git and Commit the Project

Initialize git:

```bash
git init
```

Create `.gitignore` to exclude unnecessary files:

```
env/
__pycache__/
*.pyc
```

Add and commit everything:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit - TP2 Advanced Python"
```



---

##  Step 8 – Push to GitHub

1. we create a new **GitHub repository** named `HospitalDataAnalysis` (without README, .gitignore, or license).
2. Link your local project:

   ```bash
   git branch -M main
   git remote add origin https://github.com/your-username/HospitalDataAnalysis.git
   git push -u origin main
   ```

## 🧠 Summary

we :

* Created and managed a Python environment
* Loaded and analyzed real data using Pandas
* Visualized results with Matplotlib
* Version-controlled and published your project on GitHub

This project demonstrates a **complete mini data analysis workflow**, just like in real-world data science.

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Yassine Talahari**
Master 1 – Advanced Python (2025-Boustil)
From CSV → Visualization → GitHub 🚀

Commit message:

Document collaboration and requirements update
Added collaboration steps for cloning hadil's repository and updating requirements.

README.md, after:

# 🏥 HospitalDataAnalysis

A mini-project for the **Advanced Python** course.
It focuses on manipulating and visualizing hospital patient data using **Python, Pandas, NumPy, and Matplotlib**, inside a custom environment connected to GitHub.

---

## 🎯 Project Goal

The goal is to simulate a complete **data science workflow**, step by step:

1. Create and configure a Python environment
2. Prepare and load a CSV dataset
3. Explore and visualize the data
4. Manage everything with Git and push it to GitHub

By the end, we will have a reproducible project — from raw data to GitHub repository.

---

##  Step 1 – Create the Project Folder

in**Anaconda Prompt**,we navigate to the location where we want to store the project:

```bash

mkdir HospitalDataAnalysis
cd HospitalDataAnalysis
```

Inside the folder, we create this structure:

```
HospitalDataAnalysis/
│
├── data/
├── notebooks/
├── scripts/
├── screenshots/
│
└── README.md
```
i added screenshots 
---

##  Step 2 – Create and Activate the Environment

In Anaconda Prompt:

```bash
conda create -n HosipitalDataAnalysis python=put here ur python version
conda activate HospitalDataAnalysis
```

Install required libraries:

```bash
conda install pandas numpy matplotlib jupyter
```

---

##  Step 3 – Create the Dataset

Inside the `data` folder,we will create a file named **patients.csv** and add the following:

```csv
PatientID,Age,Sex,BloodPressure,Cholesterol,Diagnosis
insert some data
```

Save and close the file.

---

##  Step 4 – Launch Jupyter Notebook

Running Jupyter:

```bash
jupyter notebook
```
<img src="screenshots/jupyter_interface.png" width="700">

In the browser, we goto  **notebooks/** folder and create a new notebook named **patients_analysis.ipynb**.

---

##  Step 5 – Load and Explore the Data

In the first cell:

```python
import pandas as pd

df = pd.read_csv("../data/patients.csv")
df.head()
```
<img src="screenshots/datasets.png" width="700">
Then explore:

```python
df.info()
df.describe()
df['Diagnosis'].value_counts()
```

### Example Output:



---

##  Step 6 – Visualize the Data

Create visualizations with Matplotlib.


### 6.1 Cholesterol vs Age

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

plt.scatter(df["Age"], df["Cholesterol"], color="blue")
plt.title("Cholesterol vs Age")
plt.xlabel("Age")
plt.ylabel("Cholesterol")
plt.show()
```



---

### 6.2 Diagnosis Distribution

```python
df['Diagnosis'].value_counts().plot(kind='bar', color=['green','orange','red'])
plt.title("Number of Patients per Diagnosis")
plt.xlabel("Diagnosis")
plt.ylabel("Count")
plt.show()
```

<img src="screenshots/visualization.png" width="700">

---



##  Step 7 – Initialize Git and Commit the Project

Initialize git:

```bash
git init
```

Create `.gitignore` to exclude unnecessary files:

```
env/
__pycache__/
*.pyc
```

Add and commit everything:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit - TP2 Advanced Python"
```



---

##  Step 8 – Push to GitHub

1. we create a new **GitHub repository** named `HospitalDataAnalysis` (without README, .gitignore, or license).
2. Link your local project:

   ```bash
   git branch -M main
   git remote add origin https://github.com/your-username/HospitalDataAnalysis.git
   git push -u origin main
   ```

## Step 9 – Collaboration: Cloning a Friend’s Repo & Updating Requirements

For the final part of the TP, we collaborated by working with a classmate’s project (Hadil’s repository).
Here’s what we did:

Cloned our friend’s repository using the git clone command.
 ```bash
git clone https://github.com/HadilBoussensla/HospitalDataAnalysis.git
   ```
<img src="screenshots/clonage.png" width="700">

Activated our own environment inside her project to ensure the same dependencies were available.

conda activate HospitalDataAnalysis

<img src="screenshots/her_project_my_env.png" width="700">

Updated the requirements file to include the full list of dependencies from our environment.

pip freeze > requirements.txt
git add requirements.txt
git commit -m "yassino updated requeirements.txt"
git push

<img src="screenshots/updating_requirements.png" width="700">

## 🧠 Summary

we :

* Created and managed a Python environment
* Loaded and analyzed real data using Pandas
* Visualized results with Matplotlib
* Version-controlled and published your project on GitHub
* Collaborated by cloning a teammate’s repo and updating dependencies

This project demonstrates a **complete mini data analysis workflow**

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Yassine Talahari**
Master 1 – Advanced Python (2025-Boustil)
From CSV → Visualization → GitHub 🚀
